Welcome, in this video, we're going to create a few tags in our local Git repository
that we're going to be using with GitHub during the next few videos.
I'm starting out fresh on my terminal program;
I'm currently in my user's home directory, so now let's go
to the "website" Git repository. That's currently in the "website" folder,
within a projects folder, within our user's home directory.
You can see that we are currently on the "develop" branch,
and our working directory is clean. Alright, so now let's get started.
I'm going to use the "git log" command, passing in "--oneline",
to give me a summary of the recent commits in our Git repository.
Using this list of commits, I want to create several tags
that mark major milestones within this repository so far.
If I type "git tag", I currently don't have any tags, and using the "git tag"
without any parameters will list tags if they are available in our repository.
The first tags I will be creating will be simple or lightweight tags,
and I simply want those tags to point to the HEAD position
on the current branches for develop and master respectively.
To do that, I will create the first tag called "unstable",
and I want it to reference the HEAD position, which is the last commit on the develop branch.
So type "git tag"; space; "unstable", which is the name of the tag we're going to use;
space; and the reference point to associate the tag, which is "develop",
which will mean the last commit on the develop branch.
Now, if I do a "git tag", I see that I have a tag named "unstable".
Now, let's create another tag "git tag stable master";
in this case, we're going to create a tag named stable on the master branch.
Type "git tag", and that will list both "stable" and "unstable".
To see our tags being listed type "git hist", which is an alias we created in a previous video.
You can see at the very top, we have the commit id "369b832",
which has the tag "unstable" associated with it.
You'll notice, within our history, that tags are noted with a "tag:", and then the tag name.
If we go a little bit further down, you can see that "a07fa0c" is associated with "tag: stable",
which is also on 'origin/master' and our local master branch.
Now I'm going to list out my commits using "git log --oneline".
The previous tags we created were simple or lightweight tags.
Simple and lightweight tags simply label a specific commit;
there's no extra information associated with those tags.
The next set of tags I want to create are going to be release tags, or annotated tags.
This time, I'm adding more information: "git tag -a", this is going to be an annotated tag;
then the name of the tag, in this case "v0.1-alpha -m" to provide a tag message;
"Release 1.0 (Alpha)"; and then, at the very end, I'm providing the commit id
that I want to associate with this tag, which is "85fe102".
Double check the line and then press enter.
Now if I do a "git tag", I can see that I have the "v0.1-alpha" tag listed.
With annotated tags, we have the option of using the "git show" command
specifying the tag: "git show v0.1-alpha".
When we do that we see, at the very top, we have the tag followed by the tag name,
and then the tagger, the date, and the tag message;
these are all specific attributes of an annotated tag.
After the tag specific information, we have the information
regarding the commit itself, including a diff.
Alright, let's list those commits again, and let's add a few more tags before we go to GitHub.
In this case, I'm creating a "v0.2-alpha" tag that is associated with commit "bb1e043".
Double check this line, and then press enter.
And this last annotated tag, we will name it "v0.3-beta",
and associate it with commit "704f97c". Of course, when you create these tags,
you will want to use the specific commit ids that are associate with your repository.
So, you will have different commit ids as you create these tags.
Let's list the tags by doing "git tag"; we have "stable" and "unstable",
which are the lightweight tags, and then our three tags that start with
"v0." some number: two alphas and a beta, those three of which are annotated tags.